13 Full essay
1. Explain some of the ways in which humans are damaging the environment. What can governments do to address these problems? What can individual people do?
Humans are responsible for a variety of environmental problems, but we can also take steps to reduce the damage that we are causing to the planet. This essay will discuss environmental problems and the measures that governments and individuals can take to address these problems.
Two of the biggest threats to the environment are air pollution and waste. Gas emissions from factories and exhaust fumes from vehicles lead to global warming, which may have a devastating effect on the planet in the future. As the human population increases, we are also producing ever greater quantities of waste, which contaminates the earth and pollutes rivers and oceans.
Governments could certainly make more effort to reduce air pollution. They could introduce laws to limit emissions from factories or to force companies to use renewable energy from solar, wind or water power. They could also impose ‘green taxes’ on drivers and airline companies. In this way, people would be encouraged to use public transport and to take fewer flights abroad, therefore reducing emissions.
Individuals should also take responsibility for the impact they have on the environment. They can take public transport rather than driving, choose products with less packaging, and recycle as much as possible. Most supermarkets now provide reusable bags for shoppers as well as ‘banks’ for recycling glass, plastic and paper in their car parks. By reusing and recycling, we can help to reduce waste.
In conclusion, both national governments and individuals must play their part in looking after the environment.

2. minority languages' essay
Today, I'd like to share a 'band 9' sample essay for the question below.
Several languages are in danger of extinction because they are spoken by very small numbers of people. Some people say that governments should spend public money on saving these languages, while others believe that would be a waste of money. Discuss both these views and give your opinion.
It is true that some minority languages may disappear in the near future. Although it can be argued that governments could save money by allowing this to happen, I believe that these languages should be protected and preserved.
There are several reasons why saving minority languages could be seen as a waste of money. Firstly, if a language is only spoken by a small number of people, expensive education programmes will be needed to make sure that more people learn it, and the state will have to pay for facilities, teachers and marketing. This money might be better spent on other public services. Secondly, it would be much cheaper and more efficient for countries to have just one language. Governments could cut all kinds of costs related to communicating with each minority group.
Despite the above arguments, I believe that governments should try to preserve languages that are less widely spoken. A language is much more than simply a means of communication; it has a vital connection with the cultural identity of the people who speak it. If a language disappears, a whole way of life will disappear with it, and we will lose the rich cultural diversity that makes societies more interesting. By spending money to protect minority languages, governments can also preserve traditions, customs and behaviours that are part of a country’s history.
In conclusion, it may save money in the short term if we allow minority languages to disappear, but in the long term this would have an extremely negative impact on our cultural heritage.
(258 words)

3. Some people believe that studying at university or college is the best route to a successful career, while others believe that it is better to get a job straight after school. Discuss both views and give your opinion.
When they finish school, teenagers face the dilemma of whether to get a job or continue their education. While there are some benefits to getting a job straight after school, I would argue that it is better to go to college or university.
The option to start work straight after school is attractive for several reasons. Many young people want to start earning money as soon as possible. In this way, they can become independent, and they will be able to afford their own house or start a family. In terms of their career, young people who decide to find work, rather than continue their studies, may progress more quickly. They will have the chance to gain real experience and learn practical skills related to their chosen profession. This may lead to promotions and a successful career.
On the other hand, I believe that it is more beneficial for students to continue their studies. Firstly, academic qualifications are required in many professions. For example, it is impossible to become a doctor, teacher or lawyer without having the relevant degree. As a result, university graduates have access to more and better job opportunities, and they tend to earn higher salaries than those with fewer qualifications. Secondly, the job market is becoming increasingly competitive, and sometimes there are hundreds of applicants for one position in a company. Young people who do not have qualifications from a university or college will not be able to compete.
For the reasons mentioned above, it seems to me that students are more likely to be successful in their careers if they continue their studies beyond school level.
(271 words, band 9)

4. museums' essay
Some people think that museums should be enjoyable places to entertain people, while others believe that the purpose of museums is to educate. Discuss both views and give you own opinion.
People have different views about the role and function of museums. In my opinion, museums can and should be both entertaining and educational.
On the one hand, it can be argued that the main role of a museum is to entertain. Museums are tourist attractions, and their aim is to exhibit a collection of interesting objects that many people will want to see. The average visitor may become bored if he or she has to read or listen to too much educational content, so museums often put more of an emphasis on enjoyment rather than learning. This type of museum is designed to be visually spectacular, and may have interactive activities or even games as part of its exhibitions.
On the other hand, some people argue that museums should focus on education. The aim of any exhibition should be to teach visitors something that they did not previously know. Usually this means that the history behind the museum’s exhibits needs to be explained, and this can be done in various ways. Some museums employ professional guides to talk to their visitors, while other museums offer headsets so that visitors can listen to detailed commentary about the exhibition. In this way, museums can play an important role in teaching people about history, culture, science and many other aspects of life.
In conclusion, it seems to me that a good museum should be able to offer an interesting, enjoyable and educational experience so that people can have fun and learn something at the same time.
(253 words, band 9)

5. gender and university' essay
Here's my full essay using last week's plan:
Universities should accept equal numbers of male and female students in every subject. To what extent do you agree or disagree?
In my opinion, men and women should have the same educational opportunities. However, I do not agree with the idea of accepting equal proportions of each gender in every university subject.
Having the same number of men and women on all degree courses is simply unrealistic. Student numbers on any course depend on the applications that the institution receives. If a university decided to fill courses with equal numbers of males and females, it would need enough applicants of each gender. In reality, many courses are more popular with one gender than the other, and it would not be practical to aim for equal proportions. For example, nursing courses tend to attract more female applicants, and it would be difficult to fill these courses if fifty per cent of the places needed to go to males.
Apart from the practical concerns expressed above, I also believe that it would be unfair to base admission to university courses on gender. Universities should continue to select the best candidates for each course according to their qualifications. In this way, both men and women have the same opportunities, and applicants know that they will be successful if they work hard to achieve good grades at school. If a female student is the best candidate for a place on a course, it would be wrong to reject her in favour of a male student with lower grades or fewer qualifications.
In conclusion, the selection of university students should be based on merit, and it would be both impractical and unfair to change to a selection procedure based on gender.
(265 words, band 9)

6. equality' topic
Here's my full (band 9) essay for last week's question.
In recent years, there has been growing interest in the relationship between equality and personal achievement. Some people believe that individuals can achieve more in egalitarian societies. Others believe that high levels of personal achievement are possible only if individuals are free to succeed or fail according to their individual merits. What is your view of the relationship between equality and personal success?
In my opinion, an egalitarian society is one in which everyone has the same rights and the same opportunities. I completely agree that people can achieve more in this kind of society.
Education is an important factor with regard to personal success in life. I believe that all children should have access to free schooling, and higher education should be either free or affordable for all those who chose to pursue a university degree. In a society without free schooling or affordable higher education, only children and young adults from wealthier families would have access to the best learning opportunities, and they would therefore be better prepared for the job market. This kind of inequality would ensure the success of some but harm the prospects of others.
I would argue that equal rights and opportunities are not in conflict with people’s freedom to succeed or fail. In other words, equality does not mean that people lose their motivation to succeed, or that they are not allowed to fail. On the contrary, I believe that most people would feel more motivated to work hard and reach their potential if they thought that they lived in a fair society. Those who did not make the same effort would know that they had wasted their opportunity. Inequality, on the other hand, would be more likely to demotivate people because they would know that the odds of success were stacked in favour of those from privileged backgrounds.
In conclusion, it seems to me that there is a positive relationship between equality and personal success.
(260 words)

7. help' essay
Last week I wrote a plan for the question below. Now you can read my full essay.
We cannot help everyone in the world that needs help, so we should only be concerned with our own communities and countries. To what extent do you agree or disagree with this statement?
Some people believe that we should not help people in other countries as long as there are problems in our own society. I disagree with this view because I believe that we should try to help as many people as possible.
On the one hand, I accept that it is important to help our neighbours and fellow citizens. In most communities there are people who are impoverished or disadvantaged in some way. It is possible to find homeless people, for example, in even the wealthiest of cities, and for those who are concerned about this problem, there are usually opportunities to volunteer time or give money to support these people. In the UK, people can help in a variety of ways, from donating clothing to serving free food in a soup kitchen. As the problems are on our doorstep, and there are obvious ways to help, I can understand why some people feel that we should prioritise local charity.
At the same time, I believe that we have an obligation to help those who live beyond our national borders. In some countries the problems that people face are much more serious than those in our own communities, and it is often even easier to help. For example, when children are dying from curable diseases in African countries, governments and individuals in richer countries can save lives simply by paying for vaccines that already exist. A small donation to an international charity might have a much greater impact than helping in our local area.
In conclusion, it is true that we cannot help everyone, but in my opinion national boundaries should not stop us from helping those who are in need.
(280 words, band 9)

8. technology' essay
Several people have asked me about this question from Cambridge IELTS 8. I wrote the essay below with the help of some of my students. A few simple linking features are highlighted.
Nowadays the way many people interact with each other has changed because of technology. In what ways has technology affected the types of relationships that people make? Has this been a positive or negative development?
It is true that new technologies have had an influence on communication between people. Technology has affected relationships in various ways, and in my opinion there are both positive and negative effects.
Technology has had an impact on relationships in business, education and social life. Firstly, telephones and the Internet allow business people in different countries to interact without ever meeting each other. Secondly, services like Skype create new possibilities for relationships between students and teachers. For example, a student can now take video lessons with a teacher in a different city or country. Finally, many people use social networks, like Facebook, to make new friends and find people who share common interests, and they interact through their computers rather than face to face.
On the one hand, these developments can be extremely positive. Cooperation between people in different countries was much more difficult when communication was limited to written letters or telegrams. Nowadays, interactions by email, phone or video are almost as good as face-to-face meetings, and many of us benefit from these interactions, either in work or social contexts. On the other hand, the availability of new communication technologies can also have the result of isolating people and discouraging real interaction. For example, many young people choose to make friends online rather than mixing with their peers in the real world, and these ‘virtual’ relationships are a poor substitute for real friendships.
In conclusion, technology has certainly revolutionised communication between people, but not all of the outcomes of this revolution have been positive.
(257 words, band 9)

8. hobbies' essay
I wrote the following essay with some of my students. We tried to keep it clear, concise and well-organised, but it's still good enough for a band 9.
Some people believe that hobbies need to be difficult to be enjoyable. To what extent do you agree or disagree?
Some hobbies are relatively easy, while others present more of a challenge. Personally, I believe that both types of hobby can be fun, and I therefore disagree with the statement that hobbies need to be difficult in order to be enjoyable.
On the one hand, many people enjoy easy hobbies. One example of an activity that is easy for most people is swimming. This hobby requires very little equipment, it is simple to learn, and it is inexpensive. I remember learning to swim at my local swimming pool when I was a child, and it never felt like a demanding or challenging experience. Another hobby that I find easy and fun is photography. In my opinion, anyone can take interesting pictures without knowing too much about the technicalities of operating a camera. Despite being straightforward, taking photos is a satisfying activity.
On the other hand, difficult hobbies can sometimes be more exciting. If an activity is more challenging, we might feel a greater sense of satisfaction when we manage to do it successfully. For example, film editing is a hobby that requires a high level of knowledge and expertise. In my case, it took me around two years before I became competent at this activity, but now I enjoy it much more than I did when I started. I believe that many hobbies give us more pleasure when we reach a higher level of performance because the results are better and the feeling of achievement is greater.
In conclusion, simple hobbies can be fun and relaxing, but difficult hobbies can be equally pleasurable for different reasons.

9 unpaid work' essay
Some people think that all teenagers should be required to do unpaid work in their free time to help the local community. They believe this would benefit both the individual teenager and society as a whole. Do you agree or disagree?
Many young people work on a volunteer basis, and this can only be beneficial for both the individual and society as a whole. However, I do not agree that we should therefore force all teenagers to do unpaid work.
Most young people are already under enough pressure with their studies, without being given the added responsibility of working in their spare time. School is just as demanding as a full-time job, and teachers expect their students to do homework and exam revision on top of attending lessons every day. When young people do have some free time, we should encourage them to enjoy it with their friends or to spend it doing sports and other leisure activities. They have many years of work ahead of them when they finish their studies.
At the same time, I do not believe that society has anything to gain from obliging young people to do unpaid work. In fact, I would argue that it goes against the values of a free and fair society to force a group of people to do something against their will. Doing this can only lead to resentment amongst young people, who would feel that they were being used, and parents, who would not want to be told how to raise their children. Currently, nobody is forced to volunteer, and this is surely the best system.
In conclusion, teenagers may choose to work for free and help others, but in my opinion we should not make this compulsory.
(250 words, band 9)

10. music' essay
There are many different types of music in the world today. Why do we need music? Is the traditional music of a country more important than the international music that is heard everywhere nowadays?
It is true that a rich variety of musical styles can be found around the world. Music is a vital part of all human cultures for a range of reasons, and I would argue that traditional music is more important than modern, international music.
Music is something that accompanies all of us throughout our lives. As children, we are taught songs by our parents and teachers as a means of learning language, or simply as a form of enjoyment. Children delight in singing with others, and it would appear that the act of singing in a group creates a connection between participants, regardless of their age. Later in life, people’s musical preferences develop, and we come to see our favourite songs as part of our life stories. Music both expresses and arouses emotions in a way that words alone cannot. In short, it is difficult to imagine life without it.
In my opinion, traditional music should be valued over the international music that has become so popular. International pop music is often catchy and fun, but it is essentially a commercial product that is marketed and sold by business people. Traditional music, by contrast, expresses the culture, customs and history of a country. Traditional styles, such as ...(example)..., connect us to the past and form part of our cultural identity. It would be a real pity if pop music became so predominant that these national styles disappeared.
In conclusion, music is a necessary part of human existence, and I believe that traditional music should be given more importance than international music.
(261 words, band 9)

11. video games' essay
Some people regard video games as harmless fun, or even as a useful educational tool. Others, however, believe that videos games are having an adverse effect on the people who play them. In your opinion, do the drawbacks of video games outweigh the benefits?
Many people, and children in particular, enjoy playing computer games. While I accept that these games can sometimes have a positive effect on the user, I believe that they are more likely to have a harmful impact.
On the one hand, video games can be both entertaining and educational. Users, or gamers, are transported into virtual worlds which are often more exciting and engaging than real-life pastimes. From an educational perspective, these games encourage imagination and creativity, as well as concentration, logical thinking and problem solving, all of which are useful skills outside the gaming context. Furthermore, it has been shown that computer simulation games can improve users’ motor skills and help to prepare them for real-world tasks, such as flying a plane.
However, I would argue that these benefits are outweighed by the drawbacks. Gaming can be highly addictive because users are constantly given scores, new targets and frequent rewards to keep them playing. Many children now spend hours each day trying to progress through the levels of a game or to get a higher score than their friends. This type of addiction can have effects ranging from lack of sleep to problems at school, when homework is sacrificed for a few more hours on the computer or console. The rise in obesity in recent years has also been linked in part to the sedentary lifestyle and lack of exercise that often accompany gaming addiction.
In conclusion, it seems to me that the potential dangers of video games are more significant than the possible benefits.
(258 words, band 9)

12. problem/solution essay
Here's my full essay for the question we've been working on.
In the developed world, average life expectancy is increasing. What problems will this cause for individuals and society? Suggest some measures that could be taken to reduce the impact of ageing populations.
It is true that people in industrialised nations can expect to live longer than ever before. Although there will undoubtedly be some negative consequences of this trend, societies can take steps to mitigate these potential problems.
As people live longer and the populations of developed countries grow older, several related problems can be anticipated. The main issue is that there will obviously be more people of retirement age who will be eligible to receive a pension. The proportion of younger, working adults will be smaller, and governments will therefore receive less money in taxes in relation to the size of the population. In other words, an ageing population will mean a greater tax burden for working adults. Further pressures will include a rise in the demand for healthcare, and the fact young adults will increasingly have to look after their elderly relatives.
There are several actions that governments could take to solve the problems described above. Firstly, a simple solution would be to increase the retirement age for working adults, perhaps from 65 to 70. Nowadays, people of this age tend to be healthy enough to continue a productive working life. A second measure would be for governments to encourage immigration in order to increase the number of working adults who pay taxes. Finally, money from national budgets will need to be taken from other areas and spent on vital healthcare, accommodation and transport facilities for the rising numbers of older citizens.
In conclusion, various measures can be taken to tackle the problems that are certain to arise as the populations of countries grow older.
(265 words, band 9)

13. animal testing' essay
Nowadays animal experiments are widely used to develop new medicines and to test the safety of other products. Some people argue that these experiments should be banned because it is morally wrong to cause animals to suffer, while others are in favour of them because of their benefits to humanity. Discuss both views and give your own opinion.
It is true that medicines and other products are routinely tested on animals before they are cleared for human use. While I tend towards the viewpoint that animal testing is morally wrong, I would have to support a limited amount of animal experimentation for the development of medicines.
On the one hand, there are clear ethical arguments against animal experimentation. To use a common example of this practice, laboratory mice may be given an illness so that the effectiveness of a new drug can be measured. Opponents of such research argue that humans have no right to subject animals to this kind of trauma, and that the lives of all creatures should be respected. They believe that the benefits to humans do not justify the suffering caused, and that scientists should use alternative methods of research.
On the other hand, reliable alternatives to animal experimentation may not always be available. Supporters of the use of animals in medical research believe that a certain amount of suffering on the part of mice or rats can be justified if human lives are saved. They argue that opponents of such research might feel differently if a member of their own families needed a medical treatment that had been developed through the use of animal experimentation. Personally, I agree with the banning of animal testing for non-medical products, but I feel that it may be a necessary evil where new drugs and medical procedures are concerned.
In conclusion, it seems to me that it would be wrong to ban testing on animals for vital medical research until equally effective alternatives have been developed.
(270 words, band 9)


41 topics
1. children' topic
What problems do children face in today's world? What should we do to address or solve these problems?
The lack of closeness in families can have a negative effect on children.
Many parents have no idea how their children spend their time.
Friends, television and the Internet have become the main influences on children’s behaviour.
Teenagers are influenced by peer pressure.
Juvenile delinquency is on the increase.
Parents should be more involved with their children’s upbringing.
Young people need positive role models.

2. immigration' topic
What are the benefits and drawbacks of immigration or multi-cultural societies?
Here is a paragraph giving some of the economic benefits of immigration:
From an economic perspective, immigration can be extremely positive. Many immigrants have skills that are needed in the country they move to. For example, countries sometimes lack key workers like doctors and nurses, and immigration is therefore encouraged. Immigrants who find work contribute to the economy of their new country with the skills they bring and the taxes they pay. At the same time, many immigrants send money to help family members in their home country, therefore helping to boost that economy too.

3. genetic engineering' topic
Would you be able to discuss the advantages and disadvantages of genetic engineering? Here are some ideas from my ebook:
Genetic engineering is the practice of manipulating the genes of an organism. - It is used to produce crops that are more resistant to insects and diseases. - Some genetically modified crops grow more quickly. - Some drugs and vaccines are produced by genetic engineering. - It may become possible to change a person's genetic characteristics. - Scientists may use genetic engineering to cure diseases. - Inherited illnesses would no longer exist. - Genes could be changed before a baby is born. - It could also be possible to clone human organs. - We could have replacement body parts. - Humans could live longer, healthier lives.

4. studying abroad
More and more students are choosing to study at colleges and universities in a foreign country. Do the benefits of studying abroad outweigh the drawbacks?
Benefits of studying abroad:
Many students travel abroad to study at a prestigious university.
The best universities employ lecturers who are experts in their fields.
Qualifications gained abroad can open doors to better job opportunities.
Living in a foreign country can broaden students' horizons.
Overseas students are exposed to different cultures and customs.
They can immerse themselves in a language.
Drawbacks of studying abroad:
Living away from home can be challenging.
Students have problems with paperwork such as visa applications.
The language barrier can cause difficulties.
Students have to find accommodation and pay bills.
Many students feel homesick and miss their families.
Some students experience culture shock.

5. crime topic
Here is a "problem/solution" question, with some ideas for an essay below:
Many criminals re-offend after they have been punished. Why do some people continue to commit crimes after they have been punished, and what measures can be taken to tackle this problem?
Causes of crime and re-offending:
The main causes of crime are poverty, unemployment and lack of education.
People who commit crimes often have no other way of making a living.
The prison system can make the situation worse.
Offenders mix with other criminals who can be a negative influence.
A criminal record makes finding a job more difficult.
Many prisoners re-offend when they are released.
Possible measures to reduce crime and re-offending:
Prisons should provide education or vocational training.
Rehabilitation programmes prepare prisoners for release into society.
Community service is another way to reform offenders.
It makes offenders useful in their local communities.
They might be required to talk to school groups or clean public areas.
Offenders also need help when looking for accommodation and work

6. zoo' topic
Some people believe that it is wrong to keep animals in zoos, while others think that zoos are both entertaining and ecologically important. Discuss both views.
Here are some (band 7 or higher) vocabulary ideas. I've organised the vocabulary according to different perspectives.
Positives of keeping animals in zoos:
Environmental perspective: Zoos play an important role in wildlife conservation. They help to protect endangered species. They allow scientists to study animal behaviour.
Economic perspective: Zoos employ large numbers of people. They provide job opportunities and income for the local area. The money raised can be used for conservation projects.
Personal perspective: Zoos are interesting, educational and fun. They make a great day out for families. Children learn to appreciate wildlife and nature.
Negatives of zoos:
Environmental perspective: Zoos are artificial environments. Animals lose their instinct to hunt for food. It would be better to save endangered species by protecting their natural habitats.
Moral perspective: Keeping animals in cages is unethical. We have no right to use animals for entertainment. Zoos exhibit animals with the aim of making a profit.

7. globalisation
Here is an essay question on the topic of globalisation:
It has been said that the world is becoming a global village in which there are no boundaries to trade and communication. Do the benefits of globalisation outweigh the drawbacks?
Yesterday's video contained some useful ideas, but here are some more ideas from my ebook:
Positives of globalisation:
Business is becoming increasingly international.
A global economy means free trade between countries.
This can strengthen political relationships.
Globalisation can also create opportunities for employment.
It encourages investment in less developed countries.
It could reduce poverty in the developing world.
Negatives of globalisation:
Globalisation can also lead to unemployment and exploitation.
Companies move to countries where labour is cheap.
This creates redundancies, or job losses.
Some companies exploit their employees in developing countries.
Salaries are low and working conditions are often poor.
Global trade also creates excessive waste and pollution.

8. advertising topic
Advertising is a very common topic in both the IELTS writing and speaking tests. Here are some ideas from my ebook that you could learn.
Positives of advertising:
Companies need to tell customers about their products and services.
Advertisements inform us about the choices we have.
The advertising industry employs many people.
Advertisements are often funny, artistic or thought-provoking.
Negatives of advertising:
Advertisers aim to convince us that buying things leads to happiness.
We are persuaded to follow the latest trends and fashions.
Children can be easily influenced by advertisements.
They put pressure on their parents by pestering or nagging.
Opinions:
Advertising should be regulated by governments.
Advertisements that target children should be banned.
Packaging for junk food should display clear health warnings.
Overall, advertising is necessary but it needs to be controlled

9. tourism
Do the benefits of tourism outweigh the drawbacks?
Here are some ideas. I've organised the vocabulary according to different perspectives (different ways of looking at this issue).
Positives of tourism:
Personal perspective: Tourism is a popular leisure activity. Tourists can relax, have fun, 'recharge their batteries', experience different customs and cultures (sight-seeing, sunbathing, visiting monuments, tasting new cuisine). Travel opens our minds. It can broaden our horizons.
Economic perspective: The tourism industry is vital for some countries. People rely on tourism for their income. Tourism attracts investment from governments and companies. It creates employment due to demand for goods and services (hotels, entertainment etc.). It helps to improve the standard of living.
Negatives of tourism:
Environmental perspective: Tourism can have a negative impact on the environment. Excessive building (roads, hotels etc.) destroys natural habitats and spoils the landscape. Tourism creates pollution and waste. It puts pressure on local resources such as food, water and energy.
Economic perspective: Tourism may cause a rise in the cost of living. Prices of goods and services go up. Tourists buy second homes. All of this affects local people.
Cultural perspective: Local traditions may be lost. Traditional jobs and skills die out (e.g. farming, fishing). Local people are forced to work in the tourist industry.
10. what is happiness?
Many students find the following question difficult (Cambridge IELTS 4, page 55):
Happiness is considered very important in life. Why is it difficult to define? What factors are important in achieving happiness?
Here are some ideas from my ebook.
Happiness means different things to different people.
It can be described as a feeling of pleasure or enjoyment.
People enjoy spending time with family and friends.
Hobbies, sports and games can be a source of fun and enjoyment.
Some people see money as a source of happiness.
Other people define happiness as something deeper.
They need to feel that they are doing something useful with their lives.
Some people get a sense of achievement from their work.
Others find happiness in bringing up their children.
11. global language argument
The speaker in yesterday's video gave the positives of English as a global second language. Here is a paragraph with arguments against this view.
Negatives of English as a global language: The expansion of English has also been criticised. Some people worry that if one language, like English, becomes dominant, other languages may disappear. Languages spoken by small communities could become extinct as people learn English in order to find work. This would obviously have a negative effect on local cultures, customs and traditions because the new dominant language would bring its own culture with it. For example, the expansion of English has happened alongside the increasing popularity of American culture. The American film, music and fashion industries are as dominant as global American companies and products, such as Microsoft or the iPod. Some people call this ‘cultural imperialism’, meaning that one culture has power over others

12. technology
Here is a question that a student asked me about:
Some people believe that the range of technology available to individuals today is increasing the gap between rich people and poor people, while others say that technology has the opposite effect. Discuss both views and give your opinion.
I'd write a 4-paragraph essay:
Introduction: introduce the topic and give your view
One view
The other view (that you agree with)
Conclusion: repeat your view
Some ideas:
Technology could increase the gap between rich and poor. Rich people have smartphones, laptops, wireless broadband Internet etc. People in developed countries can now work from home or from anywhere in the world. They can do their shopping online and have things delivered to their homes. Technology improves their quality of life.
On the other hand, many people in poorer countries, who did not have normal telephones, now have mobile phones. Also, the Internet is spreading to all parts of the world. In the past, only people in developed countries had access to world-class libraries, but now the Internet gives everyone access to the same information. This will lead to greater equality.

13. city problems
More and more people are migrating to cities in search of a better life, but city life can be extremely difficult. Explain some of the difficulties of living in a city. How can governments make urban life better for everyone?
Here are some band 7 vocabulary ideas from my ebook for describing city problems:
Life in cities has its drawbacks.
The cost of living is higher than in rural areas.
Housing is usually much more expensive.
Homelessness and poverty are common in cities.
There is a gap between the rich and poor.
Life in cities can be extremely stressful.
There are problems like traffic congestion and crime.
Cities lack a sense of community.
People do not even know their neighbours.
Cities are sometimes described as “concrete jungles”.

14. governments
A lot of IELTS Writing questions ask you to give opinions about what governments should do in relation to an issue. Governments can have an influence on almost everything: environment, crime, television, advertising, work etc.
As part of your IELTS preparation, you should think about what governments can do in relation to IELTS topics. Here are some ideas from my ebook:
Governments provide public services like healthcare and education.
They introduce new laws.
They raise money by taxing working people.
They can spend money on campaigns to educate people.
They can raise people's awareness of issues.
They can create new jobs.
They can provide resources for schools, hospitals etc.
They can support people who are living in poverty or unable to work.
So, if the question asks you to suggest what governments should do to reduce obesity, you could write this:
"In my opinion, governments should spend money on campaigns to educate people about the importance of regular exercise and a healthy diet. Perhaps they should also introduce new laws to ban the advertising of junk food to children."

15. health topic
Despite huge improvements in healthcare, the overall standard of physical health in many developed countries is now falling. What could be the reason for this trend, and what can be done to reverse it?
Here is a paragraph about causes of poor health:
Lifestyle is a major cause of poor health in developed countries. Most people now travel by car rather than walking, and machines now perform many traditional manual jobs. As a result, people tend to work in offices where little physical activity is required. At home, people are also less active; most adults relax by watching television, while children play video games rather than doing outdoor sports. Technology has therefore made our lives more comfortable but perhaps less healthy.

16. money and consumerism
Here are some vocabulary ideas for the topic of money and consumerism. You could use these ideas to write an essay:
Many people say that we now live in 'consumer societies' where money and possessions are given too much importance. Others believe that consumer culture has played a vital role in improving our lives. Discuss both views and give your opinion.
General ideas:
a consumer society, materialistic, earn money, make money, make a profit, success, material possessions, connect wealth with happiness, status symbols, the power of advertising.
Positives of consumerism:
employment, income, salaries, products that we need, reduce poverty, better standard of living, quality of life, creativity and innovation, trade between countries.
Negatives:
create waste, use natural resources, damage to the environment, throw-away culture, people become greedy, selfish, money does not make us happy, loss of traditional values.

17. fixed punishments
Some people believe that there should be fixed punishments for each type of crime. Others, however, argue that the circumstances of an individual crime, and the motivation for committing it, should always be taken into account when deciding on the punishment. Discuss both these views and give your own opinion.
Here is my suggested essay outline:
1. Introduction: topic + response
People have different views about whether punishments for crimes should be fixed. Although there are some advantages of fixed punishments, I believe that it is better to judge each crime individually.
2. Benefits of fixed punishments
There are some good arguments for having one set punishment for each crime. IDEAS: easy, fair justice system; everyone is aware of the punishment for each crime; fixed punishments could deter criminals.
3. Benefits of not having fixed punishments
However, I would argue that the circumstances of a crime and the criminal’s motivation should have an influence on the punishment. IDEAS: judge can decide the best response; a more humane system; example: stealing to feed a family compared to stealing for profit.
4. Conclusion: repeat your response
In conclusion, despite the advantages of fixed punishments, it seems to me that each crime should be judged taking both the circumstances and motivation into account.

18. online shopping' topic
This was a recent IELTS exam question:
Online shopping is increasing dramatically. How could this trend affect our environment and the kinds of jobs required?
My advice is to plan your essay with a 4-paragraph structure:
1. Introduction: topic + response (2 sentences are enough) Introduce the topic of 'online shopping becoming more popular'. Then write that it will have a significant impact on the environment and on jobs.
2. Paragraph about the environment Write about simple ideas e.g. people will drive less, so there will be less pollution, less destruction from the building of new roads, but perhaps more packaging.
3. Paragraph about jobs Simple ideas e.g. many shop workers will lose their jobs, unemployment may rise, but there will be more skilled jobs in IT (computer programmers, web designers).
4. Conclusion: repeat your response Overall opinion: online shopping may have a negative effect on employment, but it might be a good thing for the environment.

19. marriages' topic
Marriages are bigger and more expensive nowadays than in the past. Why is this the case? Is it a positive or negative development?
To plan an essay for this topic, consider the following questions:
Would you call this an 'opinion' essay or a 'discussion' essay?
For a 4-paragraph essay, what would each paragraph be about?
What 2 things do you need to do in the introduction?
Do you have any ideas to explain why weddings are bigger/expensive?
Should you choose 'positive' or 'negative', or can you discuss both?
Feel free to answer these questions in the comments area. I'll give you my answers tomorrow, and I'll try to write a full essay for next week.

20. road safety' topic
Road safety could be the topic of a "problem/solution" essay:
Despite improvements in vehicle technology, there are still large numbers of road accidents. Explain some of the causes of these accidents, and suggest some measures that could be taken to address the problem.
Here are some ideas from my ebook:
Causes:
Driving while tired or drunk is extremely dangerous.
Mobile phones can be a dangerous distraction for drivers.
They draw the driver’s attention away from the road.
Solutions:
The use of phones while driving has been banned in many countries.
Punishments are becoming stricter.
Television campaigns are used to remind people to drive safely.
Speed cameras have become more common.

21. academic ability' topic
Some people think schools should group pupils according to their academic ability, but others believe pupils with different abilities should be educated together. Discuss both views and give your opinion.
Here are some "band 7" (or higher) ideas from my ebook:
For grouping by ability:
Teachers can work at the right speed for their students.
Teachers can plan more suitable lessons.
High-level groups may progress faster.
Lower level groups can benefit from a slower pace.
Against grouping by ability:
Grouping by ability may have a negative impact on students.
Children do not want to be seen as less intelligent than others.
Being in a lower level group could damage their self esteem.
Mixed ability classes encourage children of all abilities to cooperate.

22. women and work' topic
Dana sent me the following question:
Women should have an equal role alongside men in both police and armed forces. To what extent do you agree or disagree?
Here is my plan for a 4-paragraph essay:
1. Introduction: topic + response - Introduce the topic e.g. "Increasing numbers of women are choosing to..." - Respond to the question e.g. "I completely agree that women should be able..."
2. First reason why I agree: equal opportunities Explain why women should have the same right as men to choose their profession. People should be chosen for jobs according to their skills, qualifications, character etc.
3. Second reason why I agree: women's capabilities I would disagree with the view that women are less able than men to do certain jobs. Also, I would argue that policewomen, for example, may be better at controlling a situation by communicating more effectively. Police and military work requires more than just physical strength. Teamwork, leadership and communication can be much more important.
4. Conclusion: one sentence Repeat your response in a different way.

23. dependence' question
The following question was used in several countries last Saturday. I've listed some ideas below.
Some people think that in the modern world we have become more dependent on each other, while others think that people are now more independent.  Discuss both views and give your own opinion.
First view: we have become more dependent
Life is more difficult and expensive, and we are less self-sufficient
Young people rely on their parents for longer
Unemployed people receive state benefits
Our jobs are much more specialised, and we need to work in teams
Second view: we are more independent
We rely on machines more than we depend on each other
The Internet allows us to solve problems without needing help
Families are more dispersed, and therefore provide less support
Education gives us the freedom to make our own choices

24. job satisfaction' topic
As most people spend a major part of their adult life at work, job satisfaction is an important element of individual well-being. What factors contribute to job satisfaction? How realistic is the expectation of job satisfaction for all workers?
The following paragraph answers the second part of the question (How realistic..)
It is difficult to imagine a world in which everyone is truly satisfied with their job. Most people work in order to earn a salary, and they would probably not choose to spend eight or more hours each day doing their jobs if they did not need the money. The need to earn money to pay mortgages, bills and everyday living costs is of much greater concern than job satisfaction. In fact, I would argue that the majority of people dislike their jobs and are unhappy about their salaries, working hours, workloads, or their bosses.
(95 words)

25. Ideas: why should the ownership of guns be limited/controlled?
Topic sentence to introduce the idea of gun control
risk of accidents, danger to children
more violent crimes, criminals will use guns, police will need guns
higher suicide rates
guns create violent societies
Here's my paragraph using the ideas above. I've divided the paragraph into separate sentences so that you can see what I have done more clearly.
In many countries, gun ownership is strictly controlled.
Supporters of this policy point out the risk of accidents with guns, especially when children can gain access to them.
They also argue that the number of violent crimes increases when guns are available, and that police are forced to use guns to combat armed criminals.
Furthermore, suicide rates have been shown to rise in places where guns are legal.
All in all, gun control advocates believe that guns create violent societies with high murder rate

26. sports salaries' topic
As I've said before, you can't get a high score for IELTS writing task 2 if you don't have good ideas about the question topic. Here are some ideas from my ebook about the following question:
Some people believe that the salaries paid to professional sportspeople are too high, while others argue that sports salaries are fair. Discuss both views and give your opinion.
View 1: sports salaries are too high
Sports professionals earn too much money.
They do not provide a vital service.
Football players earn enormous salaries by simply kicking a ball.
We could all live happily without professional football.
We should value professionals such as nurses and teachers more highly.
View 2: sports salaries are fair
It is fair that the best sportspeople earn a lot of money.
Sport is a multi-million-pound industry.
There is a large audience of sports fans who are willing to pay.
Televised games or events attract many viewers.
Being a top sportsperson requires hours of practice.

27. helping poor countries' topic
This was the IELTS writing task 2 question on 28th May:
The money given to help poor countries does not solve the problem of poverty, so rich countries should give other types of help instead. To what extent do you agree or disagree?
My students and I planned a 4-paragraph essay:
Introduction: introduce the topic of helping poor countries, and agree that giving money is not the best way to help.
Paragraph explaining why giving money is a bad idea.
Paragraph explaining why other types of help are better.
Conclusion: repeat the argument (investing is better than giving).
We discussed some ideas and wrote paragraph 2 together:
In my opinion, it is a bad idea to simply give financial aid to governments of poor countries. If rich countries do this, there is a risk that the money will not go to the people who need it most. Governments may misuse the money they are given because they do not have the resources or the know-how to tackle the causes of poverty. In some cases, corrupt politicians have become rich while their citizens continue to suffer. For these reasons, it is important for developed countries to find ways to invest in developing nations, instead of just donating money.

28. globalisation of culture
This was a recent exam question:
Differences between countries become less evident each year. Nowadays, all over the world people share the same fashions, advertising, brands, eating habits and TV channels. Do the disadvantages of this trend outweigh the advantages?
Here's my outline for a 4-paragraph essay:
Introduction It is true that many aspects of culture are becoming increasingly similar throughout the world. Although this trend has some benefits, I would argue that there are more drawbacks.
First sentence of paragraph 2 On the one hand, the globalisation of fashion, brands, eating habits and other areas of culture has some benefits. (Explain the benefits)
First sentence of paragraph 3 On the other hand, I believe that the disadvantages of cultural globalisation are even more significant. (Explain the disadvantages)
Conclusion In conclusion, it seems to me that the drawbacks of globalisation, in terms of cultural habits such as the clothes we wear or the foods we eat, do outweigh the benefits.

29. schools vs individuals
Some people think the main purpose of schools is to turn children into good citizens and workers, rather than to benefit them as individuals. To what extent do you agree or disagree?
Here are 3 different introductions. Notice that the opinion is clear in each one.
Agree: People have different views about what the main purpose of schools should be. Personally, I agree that a school's role is to prepare children to be productive members of society.
Disagree: Many people argue that the main role of schools is to prepare children for their future jobs. However, I believe that the purpose of education should be to help children to grow as individuals.
Balanced view: To a certain extent I agree that the role of schools is to prepare children to be productive members of society. However, I also believe that the education process has a positive impact on us as individuals.

30. higher education
Some people believe that studying at university or college is the best route to a successful career, while others believe that it is better to get a job straight after school. Discuss both views and give your opinion.
Here's my full introduction and conclusion, as well as some ideas for the main body paragraphs:
Introduction When they finish school, teenagers face the dilemma of whether to get a job or continue their education. While there are some benefits to getting a job straight after school, I would argue that it is better to go to college or university.
Paragraph 1: benefits of getting a job The option to start work straight after school is attractive for several reasons. (IDEAS: start earning money, become independent, gain experience, learn skills, get promotions, settle down earlier, afford a house, have a family)
Paragraph 2: benefits of higher education (my opinion) On the other hand, I believe that it is more beneficial for students to continue their studies. (IDEAS: some jobs require academic qualifications, better job opportunities, higher salaries, the job market is very competitive, gain knowledge, become a useful member of society)
Conclusion For the reasons mentioned above, it seems to me that students are more likely to be successful in their lives if they continue their studies beyond school level.

31. who should we help?
We cannot help everyone in the world that needs help, so we should only be concerned with our own communities and countries. To what extent do you agree or disagree with this statement?
Let's plan an essay for this question.
Introduction - I don't think there is a "middle" opinion for this question. You either agree that we should only be worried about our own communities and countries, or you think that we should also help those outside our own countries. The best response might be todisagree - then you can say that we should try to help everyone.
Paragraph 2 - I agree that it is important to help our neighbours and fellow citizens. (Explain this idea)
Paragraph 3 - At the same time, I believe that we have an obligation to help those who live beyond our national borders. (Explain)
Conclusion - Repeat the idea that we can help people both at home and abroad.

32. global warming' topic
If the question asks you to explain a problem related to the environment, you could write about global warming.
Here is a paragraph explaining the problem (causes) of global warming:
Perhaps the most serious problem facing the environment is global warming. Gases such as carbon dioxide trap heat from the sun within the earth’s atmosphere, and this causes global temperatures to rise. This process is known as the greenhouse effect, and human activity is a major factor in the rise of the greenhouse gases which cause it. For example, factories and vehicles produce emissions and exhaust fumes. As many developing countries are becoming industrialised, emissions from factories are expected to increase. Furthermore, the number of cars on our streets is growing all the time, and cheap air travel is making flying accessible to more and more people. Consequently, the amount of greenhouse gases released into the atmosphere shows no signs of decreasing

33. nuclear power' topic
Following on from yesterday's listening lesson, here is a paragraph explaining some of the benefits of nuclear power:
There are several benefits to building more nuclear power stations. Firstly, nuclear power is a relatively sustainable energy source, meaning that it can be used to produce electricity without wasting limited natural resources like coal, oil or gas. Secondly, nuclear power stations are cleaner than fossil fuel power stations, and could help to reduce carbon emissions that cause global warming. With improvements in nuclear technology, the risks of accidents are being reduced. As a result, many countries are now considering nuclear power as a solution to high oil and gas prices, increasing demand for electricity, and worries about pollution and climate change.
Read, analyse and use the paragraph:
How many sentences are there, and what does each sentence do?
Note the main ideas and collocations (e.g. sustainable energy source).
Try to rewrite the paragraph using only your notes.

34. books, radio, TV
Here are my 'main body' paragraphs for last week's question. Notice that it's possible to put advantages and disadvantages together in the same paragraph. Also, you need to be careful not to write too much!
Advantages / disadvantages of books:
The main advantage of books is that they are usually considered to be reliable sources of information. People tend to refer to books when they want to research a subject in depth, and for this reason they continue to play an important role in education. On the other hand, books quickly go out of date, and therefore they are not the best medium for communicating news stories.
Advantages / disadvantages of radio:
Radio is a much more effective medium than books for the communication of up-to-date information. We can listen to news broadcasts about events as they happen, and a key benefit of radio is that we can listen to it while doing other activities, such as driving or working. The main drawback of radio, when compared to books or television, is that there is no visual element; we cannot see what the broadcaster is describing.
Advantages / disadvantages of TV, and my opinion:
In my opinion, television is the most effective of these three media because it brings us closer to reality than a book or radio programme ever can. For example, we can watch events as they take place on the other side of the world, or we can see the body language of a politician who is being interviewed. The disadvantages of television are that programmes tend to be short and interrupted by advertisements, meaning that information is presented in limited depth.

35. art and science' topic
A student sent me this recent exam question:
These days people pay more attention to artists (writers, painters and so on) and give less importance to science and technology. To what extent do you agree or disagree?
This seems to me to be a perfect question for a "balanced opinion" answer (i.e. both art and science are given equal importance). However, notice that you need to disagree with the question statement in order to give this balanced response.
Here's my recommended 4-paragraph essay plan:
Introduction: we could accept that artists are popular nowadays, but disagree that science and technology are treated as less important.
Main paragraph about the popularity of artists. I'd use examples as the basis for this paragraph. If you don't know any writers or painters, you can talk about actors and musicians.
Main paragraph about the importance of science and technology. I'd write about the popularity of mobile phones, computers and tablets. Maybe I'd use Steve Jobs or Bill Gates as examples of people who are famous for the technologies they created.
Conclusion: paraphrase the argument that you presented in the introduction.

35. hobbies' essay plan
Did you try planning some ideas for last week's essay question?
Some people believe that hobbies need to be difficult to be enjoyable. To what extent do you agree or disagree?
When I wrote my list of hobbies, I realised that some were easy and others were difficult. As a result, I'd say that "I partly agree" with the statement.
Here's my 4-paragraph essay plan:
Introduction - write 2 sentences: introduce the topic, and give an overall answer.
Main paragraph - about difficult hobbies. My examples: swimming, football, chess. Most sports and games are difficult, but the challenge makes them more enjoyable, especially when you can see that you are improving.
Main paragraph - about easy hobbies. My examples: photography, reading, cinema. In my opinion, you do not need to be an expert to enjoy taking photos, reading books, or watching films. I find these activities both easy and enjoyable.
Conclusion - repeat / summarise your answer in one sentence.
36. prisons' topic
In today's lesson I'll try to explain what makes a good paragraph. We'll analyse a paragraph that I wrote with some of my students.
Paragraph about the purpose of prisons:
On the one hand, criminals do need to be punished in some way. A person whocommits a crime must learn that unlawful actions have consequences. Prison sentences punish offenders because they lose their freedom, and are separated from family and friends. In this way, prison acts as a deterrent to make people think carefully before breaking the law. Last year in the UK, many people were given a prison sentence for rioting, and hopefully this punishment will deter them from similar behaviour in future.
Analysis:
The paragraph contains 5 sentences, with a total of 85 words. This is the kind of length I suggest aiming for.
The first sentence is short and simple. We often call this type of sentence a 'topic sentence' because it introduces the topic of the paragraph.
Sentences 2, 3 and 4 develop the main idea in a logical, step-by-step way: crime has consequences - loss of freedom is the punishment - this stops people from breaking the law.
Sentence 5 contains a real example.
Remember that good vocabulary is the key to a high score. I've underlined the best words and phrases in the paragraph.
37. food technology' topic
Here are some ideas for last week's topic. The ideas are adapted from the 'genetic engineering' chapter in my ebook.
The range and quality of food that we can buy has changed because of technological and scientific advances. Some people regard this change as an improvement, while others believe that it is harmful. Discuss both views and give your own opinion.
Positives of advances in food technology:
Farmers can produce crops that grow bigger and faster.
Genetically modified crops may be more resistant to disease or insects.
This could be important for food production in developing countries.
Faster growing cereals, fruit and vegetables will mean more profit.
Foods can be modified to look perfect and last longer.
They may be more attractive to customers.
Negatives of advances in food technology:
Many people distrust foods that have been modified or processed.
They prefer organic foods which are produced without chemicals.
Farming without fertilisers or pesticides is more environmentally friendly.
There may be risks involved in the genetic engineering of foods.
Genetically modified crops might change whole ecosystems.
Food chains could be broken if crops are resistant to predators.
38 music' topic
Arnie shared this question about music:
There are many different types of music in the world today. Why do we need music? Is the traditional music of a country more important than the international music that is heard everywhere nowadays?
Here's a quick plan to show you how I would approach this question:
Introduction: Paraphrase the idea that many types of music are found around the world, then briefly answer both parts of the question.
Paragraph answering the first question: Explain why we need music e.g. for enjoyment, to express ideas and emotions. Give an example from your experience, and/or explain what life would be like without music.
Paragraph answering the second question: It might be easier to argue that traditional music is more important e.g. because it expresses cultural identity, customs, history. Give an example from your country, and/or explain how you would feel if traditional music disappeared.
Conclusion: Repeat / summarise your views.
39. capital punishment' topic
Here are some ideas from my ebook about the topic of capital punishment. Remember that you won't be able to write a good essay unless you have good ideas. Also, you should always try to prepare both sides of the argument.
Arguments for capital punishment:
Supporters say that capital punishment deters crime.
Fear of the death penalty stops people from committing offences.
The death penalty shows that crime is not tolerated.
It is a form of revenge.
The cost of imprisonment is avoided.
The offender cannot pose a threat to others.
Arguments against capital punishment:
Innocent people could be wrongly convicted and executed.
Crime rates are not necessarily reduced.
Many criminals do not think they will be caught.
Capital punishment is not a good deterrent.
Executing prisoners creates a violent culture and encourages revenge.
We have no right to take another human life.

40. ageing population' topic
In the developed world, average life expectancy is increasing. What problems will this cause for individuals and society? Suggest some measures that could be taken to reduce the impact of ageing populations.
Some advice:
- Write 4 paragraphs: introduction, problems, solutions, conclusion. - You don't need to separate ideas about individuals and ideas about society. Just mention something about both in your paragraphs.
Some ideas:
Problems - an increase in the number of retired people who will receive a pension - a smaller proportion of young adults = smaller working populations - a greater tax burden on working adults - demand for healthcare will rise - young adults will have to look after elderly relatives
Solutions - people may have to retire later; the state pension age will rise - medical advances and health programmes might allow elderly people to stay healthy and work for longer - people should be encouraged to have more children - governments could encourage immigration (in order to increase the number of younger adults)
41. language learning' topic
My students and I worked on this question from Cambridge IELTS 9:
Some experts believe that it is better for children to begin learning a foreign language at primary school rather than secondary school. Do the advantages of this outweigh the disadvantages?
Here's our plan for a 4-paragraph essay:
Introduction: Topic = best age to learn a foreign language. Our opinion = better to learn at primary school age.
Disadvantages of learning languages at primary age: other subjects are more important at that age (maths, mother tongue language, science), learning a new language is confusing and wastes time, could delay development of child's first language.
Advantages of learning languages at primary age: young children learn faster, they are less self-conscious or shy, they pick up the pronunciation better, they enjoy copying and learning through games, nowadays languages are just as important as maths etc.
Conclusion: repeat / summarise our answer.




Task I --- 背诵范文 / 默写
The question below comes from Cambridge IELTS book 7. Students tend to find this question difficult, but last week's lesson about house prices might help.
The chart below shows information about changes in average house prices in five different cities between 1990 and 2002 compared with the average house prices in 1989.

Some advice:
Introduction: paraphrase the question.
Summary: compare the two periods (prices fell overall from 1990-95, but rose from 1996-2002), and mention that London prices changed the most.
Details: write one paragraph about each period.
Note: don't write -5%, write "fell by 5%".
Here's my full essay (band 9) for last week's question:
The bar chart compares the cost of an average house in five major cities over a period of 13 years from 1989.
We can see that house prices fell overall between 1990 and 1995, but most of the cities saw rising prices between 1996 and 2002. London experienced by far the greatest changes in house prices over the 13-year period.
Over the 5 years after 1989, the cost of average homes in Tokyo and London dropped by around 7%, while New York house prices went down by 5%. By contrast, prices rose by approximately 2% in both Madrid and Frankfurt.
Between 1996 and 2002, London house prices jumped to around 12% above the 1989 average. Homebuyers in New York also had to pay significantly more, with prices rising to 5% above the 1989 average, but homes in Tokyo remained cheaper than they were in 1989. The cost of an average home in Madrid rose by a further 2%, while prices in Frankfurt remained stable.
(165 words)



 'table' essay
The table below gives information about the underground railway systems in six cities.

Full essay (band 9):
The table shows data about the underground rail networks in six major cities.
The table compares the six networks in terms of their age, size and the number of people who use them each year. It is clear that the three oldest underground systems are larger and serve significantly more passengers than the newer systems.
The London underground is the oldest system, having opened in 1863. It is also the largest system, with 394 kilometres of route. The second largest system, in Paris, is only about half the size of the London underground, with 199 kilometres of route. However, it serves more people per year. While only third in terms of size, the Tokyo system is easily the most used, with 1927 million passengers per year.
Of the three newer networks, the Washington DC underground is the most extensive, with 126 kilometres of route, compared to only 11 kilometres and 28 kilometres for the Kyoto and Los Angeles systems. The Los Angeles network is the newest, having opened in 2001, while the Kyoto network is the smallest and serves only 45 million passengers per year.
(185 words)



The pie charts compare the expenditure of a school in the UK in three different years over a 20-year period.
It is clear that teachers’ salaries made up the largest proportion of the school’s spending in all three years (1981, 1991 and 2001). By contrast, insurance was the smallest cost in each year.

In 1981, 40% of the school’s budget went on teachers’ salaries. This figure rose to 50% in 1991, but fell again by 5% in 2001. The proportion of spending on other workers’ wages fell steadily over the 20-year period, from 28% of the budget in 1981 to only 15% in 2001.

Expenditure on insurance stood at only 2% of the total in 1981, but reached 8% in 2001. Finally, the percentages for resources and furniture/equipment fluctuated. 

The figure for resources was highest in 1991, at 20%, and the proportion of spending on furniture and equipment reached its peak in 2001, at 23%.
(158 words, band 9)



'water use' graph and table
The following question comes from Cambridge IELTS book 6, page 30.
The graph and table below give information about water use worldwide and water consumption in two different countries.

Here's my plan for a 4-paragraph essay:
Introduction - rewrite the question in a different way.
Summary - write one sentence summarising the trend shown on the graph, and one sentence summarising the table.
Details paragraph - describe the graph in detail (maybe 3 sentences).
Details paragraph - describe the table in detail (maybe 3 sentences).
Remember: we don't write a conclusion because a conclusion means a final decision or opinion. However, you can put the summary at the end (instead of second) if you want.
The charts compare the amount of water used for agriculture, industry and homes around the world, and water use in Brazil and the Democratic Republic of Congo.
It is clear that global water needs rose significantly between 1900 and 2000, and that agriculture accounted for the largest proportion of water used. We can also see that water consumption was considerably higher in Brazil than in the Congo.
In 1900, around 500km³ of water was used by the agriculture sector worldwide. The figures for industrial and domestic water consumption stood at around one fifth of that amount. By 2000, global water use for agriculture had increased to around 3000km³, industrial water use had risen to just under half that amount, and domestic consumption had reached approximately 500km³.
In the year 2000, the populations of Brazil and the Congo were 176 million and 5.2 million respectively. Water consumption per person in Brazil, at 359m³, was much higher than that in the Congo, at only 8m³, and this could be explained by the fact that Brazil had 265 times more irrigated land.
(184 words, band 9)


